# Open-Source-Essay
## Open Source Assignment



The concept of Open Software is an interesting concept. Open source software means the software allows users to make modifications to it and then they are able to share their modified version. “The open source concept embraces the principles of open exchange, collaborative participation, rapid prototyping, transparency, meritocracy, and community-oriented development.” To take back control over these large corporations that can force users to buy their different products is freedom for users. Giving users the freedom and power over their own software is a complex idea to think about. Having the power to see the source code of the software as well as being able to edit and enhance it is a great opportunity to take back freedom for users. One thing that is so unique about the open source concept is that it not only benefits programmers but it can also benefit non-programmers, everyday users. Every user is granted complete control over their own devices. They can use the software in whatever kind of way they please instead of using it how someone else thinks they should use it. Giving users freedom to in their devices is something that should have always been implemented rather than these large companies having control on what their devices show and how they work. Giving back the freedom to users is what makes this open source software movement so powerful. Some other aspects of this movement that are interesting is the transparency of open source software. Open source gives users the ability to check and track what changes have been made to the software. The reliability of open source is another cool feature it has. The open source code outlives the original author because people can constantly update it and keep it around. The open standards and the peer review ensure that open source code is tested the right way and often so it can stay up to date. The flexibility  of open source is another pro to this software. This means that because the source code is so easily accessible and modifiable you can fix problems in the code specific to you or your company. The lower cost of open source is something that makes this stand out against other software. Allowing this source code to be free gives more freedom to the users. Lastly, the ability to have peer review is a major pro to this software. With the open source being so open and freely accessible the open source community is very active. The source code is actively checked and debugged by programmers. The numerous positives open source has around it shows it should be more widely used. Getting everyday people to understand how interesting and reliable this software is, would be able to continue the movement. As well as take away the power the big companies have over their users. The entirety of the concept is something that could potentially make a difference in the world of technology we have today. Being able to give back the freedom to these users is what is the most unique part of open source software. 
